How to Use a Search Engine Effectively to Achieve Optimal Results
Searching for information on the Internet can be a daunting task. There are so many websites out there, with so much data, that it may seem impossible to get the results you want.

But thanks to things like boolean search syntax, you can narrow down your search to exactly what you need.

Boolean search syntax is a way to use special words to help you find exactly what you're looking for when searching online.

Here is an example of a basic search query for freecodecamp curriculum.

A search engine search box containing the query freecodecamp curriculum.
When you search for freecodecamp curriculum, the search engine will return results that match any of these keywords – typically sorted by relevance (how likely they are to match, or be related to, more of your query).

But what if you only wanted results that matched both keywords? Well, you might have heard that you can wrap a query in quotation marks, like "freecodecamp curriculum".

A search engine search box containing the query freecodecamp curriculum wrapped in quotation marks.
However, this query specifically matches the phrase freecodecamp curriculum. This means that the results you will see will be limited to sites that say freecodecamp curriculum together, not sites that say freecodecamp AND curriculum.

If you want to match sites that include both of those terms, but not necessarily next to each other as a phrase, you can prefix each term with a plus symbol like this: +freecodecamp +curriculum

A search engine search box containing the query +freecodecamp +curriculum, with a plus symbol before each term.
Alternatively, maybe you're interested in freeCodeCamp's initiatives outside of the curriculum. In this case, you can prefix the term curriculum with a minus symbol like this: +freecodecamp -curriculum.

A search engine search box containing the query +freecodecamp -curriculum, with a plus symbol before freecodecamp and a minus symbol before curriculum.
This will return results that mention freecodecamp, but exclude results that also mention curriculum.

Or maybe you have a specific site you want to search, like our news platform? You can use site: followed by the URL of the site you want to search: site:freecodecamp.org/news curriculum.

A search engine search box containing the query site:freecodecamp.org/news curriculum.
This query returns all results from freecodecamp.org/news that contain the word curriculum.

By combining these tools, you can come up with very specific queries to get the exact information you need.

For example, the query site:freecodecamp.org/news +python -curriculum would search for Python articles on our news site, excluding articles that might talk about our curriculum.

A search engine search box containing the query site:freecodecamp.org/news +python -curriculum.
Search operators may vary, so it is always important to check the documentation for your preferred search engine.

But you should now be empowered to get the exact results you want from your web searches.